Add documentation for running a reindex (#1747)
wellcomecollection/catalogue-pipeline: REINDEXING.md

# Reindexing

A reindex operation runs the source data from the [adapters](docs/adapters/README.md) through the pipeline causing it to be re-transformed / matched & merged as appropriate.

## How to run a reindex

Running a reindex will require:

- Preparing and deploying a release
- Terraforming a new pipeline using that release

> - Running the reindex script to feed the new pipeline

Reviewer: I would maybe break this down into a checklist.

So up here you have a checklist that somebody who’s done reindexes can refer to, and further down you have more detailed explanations of what's going on.

### Update the catalogue-pipeline environments

> The catalogue-pipeline is deployed using [weco-deploy](https://github.com/wellcomecollection/weco-deploy) but does not deploy in the usual way as there is often one release per pipeline. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The catalogue-pipeline is deployed using [weco-deploy](https://github.com/wellcomecollection/weco-deploy) but does not deploy in the usual way as there is often one environment per pipeline. 
```

Author: I'm going to omit the bit "but does not deploy in the usual way" is it begs explanation which would be unnecessary detail here. I'm going to state only "Each environment represents a new pipeline."

Each environment will represent a new release.

In `.wellcome_project`:

```
catalogue_pipeline:
  environments:
    - id: "2021-06-27"
      name: "2021-06-27"
    - id: "2021-07-06"
      name: "2021-07-06"
    - id: "MY-NEW-PIPELINE"
      name: "MY-NEW-PIPELINE"

> ```

Reviewer: Suggestion:

<pre>
```diff
 catalogue_pipeline:
   environments:
     - id: "2021-06-27"
       name: "2021-06-27"
     - id: "2021-07-06"
       name: "2021-07-06"
+    - id: "YYYY-MM-DD"
+      name: "YYYY-MM-DD"
```
</pre>

which renders as:

```diff
 catalogue_pipeline:
   environments:
     - id: "2021-06-27"
       name: "2021-06-27"
     - id: "2021-07-06"
       name: "2021-07-06"
+    - id: "YYYY-MM-DD"
+      name: "YYYY-MM-DD"
```

to be super clear about what somebody should be adding.

Requested by: arn:aws:sts::760097843905:assumed-role/platform-superdev/KennyR@Wellcomecloud.onmicrosoft.com
Date created: 2021-07-08T15:11:48.403652

service                old image    new image    Git commit
---------------------  -----------  -----------  ------------
aspect_ratio_inferrer  efd451f      -            -
batcher                532ddee      -            -
feature_inferrer       efd451f      -            -
id_minter              021df38      -            -
inference_manager      021df38      -            -
ingestor_images        021df38      -            -
ingestor_works         021df38      -            -
matcher                021df38      -            -
merger                 021df38      -            -
palette_inferrer       efd451f      -            -
relation_embedder      021df38      -            -
router                 021df38      -            -
transformer_calm       021df38      -            -
transformer_mets       021df38      -            -
transformer_miro       021df38      -            -
transformer_sierra     021df38      -            -
transformer_tei        f9f910d      -            -

Created release eeb9482f-0a6a-4211-8de9-27cee7567134

> ```

Reviewer: I would trim the output just to show the important parts, and the command – the exact output isn't particularly relevant to running a reindex, and will get out-of-date quickly.

This will be done when you terraform a new pipeline.

### Terraform a new pipeline

You will now need to create a new pipeline module in [./pipeline/terraform/main.tf](./pipeline/terraform/main.tf).

Copy and paste an exisiting pipeline making sure to update the fields:

- `pipeline_date`: References secrets required to access ES and to sets internal infrastructure labels.
- `release_label`: Sets the ECR label to use on the service deployment images, created in the above deployment process. 
- `is_reindexing`: Sets ES cluster/service scaling limits while reindexing, and connects reindexing topics. Enabling this will incur above normal costs for a pipeline.

See the following example:

```tf
module "catalogue_pipeline_2021-07-06" {
  source = "./stack"

  pipeline_date = "2021-07-06"
  release_label = "2021-07-06"

  is_reindexing = false

  # Boilerplate that shouldn't change between pipelines.
  # ...
}

module "catalogue_pipeline_MY-NEW-PIPELINE" {
  source = "./stack"

  pipeline_date = "MY-NEW-PIPELINE"
  release_label = "MY-NEW-PIPELINE"

  is_reindexing = true

  # Boilerplate that shouldn't change between pipelines.
  # ...
}

> ```

Reviewer: At no point does this instruction explain that you need to plan/apply the pipeline – which is probably worth explaining explicitly (especially as the pipeline Terraform is a bit unusual).

> ### Running the reindex script

Reviewer: Can we pick a better name for this operation? What does run-in the reindex script do?

Now we have our pipeline connected for reindexing and running our chosen version of the pipeline code we can start a reindex operation.

The reindex script can be found in [./reindexer/start_reindex.py](./reindexer/start_reindex.py).

```
> python3 ./start_reindex.py

Which source do you want to reindex? (all, miro, sierra, mets, calm): all
Which pipeline are you sending this to? (catalogue, catalogue_miro_updates, reporting): catalogue
Every record (complete), just a few (partial), or specific records (specific)? (complete, partial, specific): partial
```

> You may wish to run a partial-reindex to verify that the process will work as expected before embarking on a complete reindex.

Reviewer: What does a partial reindex do?

> You can monitor a reindex in progress using Grafana at [https://monitoring.wellcomecollection.org/](https://monitoring.wellcomecollection.org/), or by looking at CloudWatch metrics in the `platform` AWS account.

Reviewer: We also have the `get_reindex_status.py` script: https://github.com/wellcomecollection/catalogue-pipeline/blob/main/reindexer/get_reindex_status.py which reports:

- the total number of source records
- how many works have reached each stage of the reindex

Non-empty DLQs will be reported in the Wellcome #wc-platform-alerts Slack channel.

A reindex should take less than a working day to complete. 

### Connecting the Catalogue API

> When we have a new index in the Elasticsearch cluster created for the pipeline when we terraformed it, we will want to make that index available to the Catalogue API cluster.

Reviewer: I know what you mean, but cramming it all into one sentence is a bit unwieldy.

Also, be clear about when we want to do this:

```suggestion
Every pipeline has a dedicated Elasticsearch cluster, and this cluster contains indexes for different stages of the reindex.
The two indexes of interest are `works-indexed-{PIPELINE_DATE}` and `images-indexed-{PIPELINE_DATE}` – these contain documents suitably for the API to use.

When these indexes are fully populate, we want to replicate them into the `catalogue-api` cluster.
```

And possibly a diagram would help?

  ![Create follower index](.gitbook/assets/create_follower_es.png)

  - Pick the remote cluster created by terraform above.
  - Create the follower indexes using the naming pattern:
  
    - `works-indexed-MY-NEW-PIPELINE`
    - `images-indexed-MY-NEW-PIPELINE`
  
  Be sure to create follower indexes for both images & works indexes. You should name the follower indexes the same as their leader. 
  
#### Updating configuration 

When you have a complete successful reindex you will want to present it via the Catalogue API.

A new index can be referenced by updating the [`ElasticConfig` object](https://github.com/wellcomecollection/catalogue-api/blob/main/common/display/src/main/scala/weco/catalogue/display_model/ElasticConfig.scala#L15):

The `indexDate` should be the one used to reference the deployment and terraformed pipeline:

```scala
object ElasticConfig {
  // We use this to share config across API applications
  // i.e. The API and the snapshot generator.
  val indexDate = "MY-NEW-PIPELINE"

  def apply(): ElasticConfig =
    ElasticConfig(
      worksIndex = Index(s"works-indexed-$indexDate"),
      imagesIndex = Index(s"images-indexed-$indexDate")
    )
}
```

> You will want to deploy this change through the API stage environment and allow CI to perform the usual API checks. 

Reviewer: How do I do this?

Author: Same as before for catalogue-api docs about deployment.

> Be sure to check the diff_tool output in CI before deploying to production!

Reviewer: How do I do this?

Author: I feel like there should probably be another guide for deploying the catalogue API to refer to, but there isn't - so i'll add some sparse detail here.

## How to run a reindex

To run a reindex follow these steps:

1. [Update the catalogue-pipeline environments](#update-the-catalogue-pipeline-environments)
2. [Prepare a release](#prepare-a-release)
3. [Deploy a release](#deploy-a-release)
4. [Terraform a new pipeline](#terraform-a-new-pipeline)
5. [Run the reindex script](#run-the-reindex-script)
6. [Connect the Catalogue API](#connect-the-catalogue-api)

### Update the catalogue-pipeline environments

The catalogue-pipeline is deployed using [weco-deploy](https://github.com/wellcomecollection/weco-deploy).

Each environment represents a new pipeline.

In `.wellcome_project`:

```
catalogue_pipeline:
  environments:
    - id: "2021-06-27"
      name: "2021-06-27"
    - id: "2021-07-06"
      name: "2021-07-06"
    - id: "YYYY-MM-DD"
      name: "YYYY-MM-DD"
```

Give your new pipeline environment id and name using the date pattern `YYYY-MM-DD`.

You will need to use the environment id when terraforming a new pipeline.

### Prepare a release

Prepare a release following the example below. 

> You may want to choose a specific git ref as a label and _not_ `latest`.

Reviewer 2: ha I did not know you could use the git ref
